# Wave 1 Data: Live-cell time-lapse microscopy of pyroptosis.

This dataset contains live-cell time-lapse microscopy of pyroptosis in SH-SY5Y cells.
The dataset was generated by Saguaro BioSciences and University of Montreal's imaging platform.

## Experimental Design
The dataset was generated by imaging SH-SY5Y cells that were treated with pyroptosis-inducing agents.
The cells were imaged every 3 hours for 48 hours using a 20x objective on a Yokogawa CQ1 cell voyager spinning disk confocal microscope.
The images were acquired with the following parameters:
* 20x objective - NA 0.80
* 96 wells on a 384-well plate
* 5 fields of view (FOV) per well
* 1 z-slice per FOV
* 4 channels

The images were acquired in 4 channels:
| Channel # | Channel Name | Excitation (nm) | Emission (nm) | Dye | Exposure (ms) |
|:---------:|:------------:|:----------:|:--------:|:------:|:---:|
| 1 | GSDMD | 488 | 525/50 | GFP | 50 |
| 2 | CL488 | 488 | 685/40 | Chromalive 488 | 400 |
| 3 | CL561 | 561 | 617/73 | Chromalive 561 | 700 |
| 4 | DNA | 405 | 447/60 | Hoechst 33342 | 600 |
| 5 | Brightfield | | | | 200 |

The wave 1 plate map can be viewed in the [Wave1_data/platemap_readme.md](./platemap_readme.md).

## Data
This wave 1 data is preliminary and generated to identify the best conditions for imaging pyroptosis in SH-SY5Y cells.
The data has the following naming convention:
* `YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS_`
* `W####F####T####Z###C#.tif`
* `YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS`: Date and time of image acquisition
* `W####`: Well number
* `F####`: Field of view number
* `T####`: Timepoint number
* `Z###`: Z-slice number
* `C#`: Channel number

## Processing
### Preprocessing
These raw data are preprocessed into single well, single field of view, single timepoint, single z-slice images directories with all channels.
This allows for each FOV to be processed independently.

### Illumination Correction

### Image-based profiling

### Image-based profile processing


Wave 1 data is deprecated and should not be used for analysis.
All notebooks and code related to wave 1 data will not run.
